# Readme
These code are generated by Dr. Manish Kumar with the collaboration of Dr. Enrico Salvati and Dr. Roberto Alessi.
Contact email: Manish Kumar <mkumar2@me.iitr.ac.in>, Enrico Salvati <enrico.salvati@uniud.it>, Group website https://simed.uniud.it/

With the current version, GPFniCS can simulate fracture failure in one and two-dimensional linear elastic isotropic materials subject to monotonic loading. It can compute mode I, mode II, and mixed mode fractures. GPFniCS is validated for various cases and the codes for the validated cases are provided. It can model brittle and quasi-brittle fractures with general types of softening like linear, exponential, and hyperbolic. GPFniCS can be further extended to three-dimensional geometries, including the effect of other physics, different types of loading like fatigue, residual stresses, and material damaging phenomena.

GPFniCS is developed in the Python 3.8.10 environment. This code is based on the FEniCS and NumPy libraries available on these https://fenicsproject.org/download/ and https://numpy.org/install/, respectively. There installtion process is provided below. For the purpose of post-processing, open-source software ParaView is used for contour plotting, while line plots are generated via Python 3.8.10. The architecture and functionality of the GPFniCS are explained in the article. 

FEniCS installation:

        sudo apt-get install software-properties-common
	
        sudo add-apt-repository ppa:fenics-packages/fenics
	
        sudo apt-get update
	
        sudo apt-get install fenics

more details can be found at the https://fenicsproject.org/download/archive/

Other external libraries used in the codes are: numpy and shapely.
Which can be install using following commands.

Numpy:

        pip install numpy

Copyright (C) <2023>  <Manish_Kumar>

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License or 
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, 
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY, without even the implied warranty of 
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the 
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License 
along with these programs. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Inputs: Material Data, discretized geometry in .xml format. Boundary conditions.
Outputs: Contour plots in .pvd format can be imported into ParaView. Load and displacement values are recorded in a text file. The Python script is used to produce the plots for load and displacement plots.

The provided codes are for the following problems: 
	
        1.  Uniaxial bar: A python script for numerical analysis is provided. The 
            codes for all the cases are given in the Uniaxial_Bar folder. The results 
            for all the cases discussed in the article are provided in the spreadsheets. 
            Another two python scripts are provided for the purpose of plotting. The 
            plots are also provided along with code. The .pvd files are shared on 
            google drive ().

        2.  3 Point bend specimen: A python script and the mesh file (.xml) for numerical
            analysis are provided. In file 3_point_bend_specimen.py, the method to calculate 
            the stress is also provided. The codes for all the cases are given in the 
            3_point_bend_specimen folder. The results for all the cases discussed in the 
            article are provided in the spreadsheet. Another python script is provided for
            the purpose of plotting. The plots are also provided along with code. The .pvd
            files are shared on google drive ().

        3.  L-shaped specimen: A python script and the mesh file (.xml) for numerical analysis
            are provided. The codes for all the cases are given in the L_shaped_specimen folder.
            The results for all the cases discussed in the article are provided in the spreadsheet.
            Another python script is provided for the purpose of plotting. The plots are also 
            provided along with code. The .pvd files are shared on 
            google drive ().

Command to run the code:

        python3 filename.py
